---
title: "Quantum Computing"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 5</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Anton Frisk Kockum</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 4
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/mcc155.pdf
folder: "msc_y1_courses"
---

## Aim

The aim of this overview course is to familiarize the students with both important quantum algorithms (such as Quantum Fourier transform, Phase estimation, and Shor's algorithm), variational quantum algorithms that utilize an interplay between classical and quantum computers (such as the Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE), and the Quantum Approximate Optimization algorithms (QAOA), among others), and the intersection of quantum computing and machine learning. The course will also give the students practical experience of programming a quantum computer. Quantum computers are rapidly improving, and recently quantum computational primacy was achieved, i.e., a quantum computer was able to perform a computational task much faster than a classical computer. Quantum computing is expected to have applications in many areas of society. The course prepares the students for applying quantum computation to a variety of important problems.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- List modern relevant quantum algorithms and their purposes.

- Explain the key principles of the various models of quantum computation (circuit, measurement-based, adiabatic model).

- Explain the basic structure of the quantum algorithms addressed in the course that are based on the circuit model, and to compute the outcome of basic quantum circuits.

- Compare, in terms of time complexity, what quantum advantage is expected from the quantum algorithms addressed in the course with respect to their classical counterparts.

- Program simple quantum algorithms on a cloud quantum computer or a cloud simulator.

- Understand the basic principles of the continuous variable encoding for quantum information processing.

- Give examples of the motivation for applying quantum computing to machine learning and of what the obstacles are to achieving an advantage from doing so.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full Chalmers syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
