---
title: "Quantum Mechanics"
description: |
  <p>4.5 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 5</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Matthias Geilhufe</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 5
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/tif290.pdf
folder: "msc_y1_courses"
---

## Aim

As a continuation of the introductory quantum mechanics courses, this course aims at providing the students with a firm, deeper knowledge of non-relativistic quantum mechanics, at demonstrating the power of quantum mechanics to describe microscopic phenomena, and at introducing the students to its contemporary applications. This will give the students insight in the physics underlying modern technology and in experiments that cannot be explained with classical physics. In this way, the course will help preparing the students for courses in, for example, condensed matter physics, quantum field theory, spectroscopy, or quantum computing.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Explain the basic principles of quantum mechanics.

- Describe the dynamics of quantum-mechanical systems in the Schrödinger and Heisenberg pictures.

- Explain the correspondence principle and how classical mechanics relates to quantum mechanics.

- Use the WKB approximation.

- Apply scattering theory to calculate the cross section of quantum particles interacting with a potential, another particle, or a crystal.

- Describe how to model particles in a magnetic field and use this to explain the Zeeman and the Aharonov-Bohm effect and Landau levels.

- Understand the concept of the density operator and apply it to describe ensembles and open systems.

- Describe and explain second quantization and apply it to lattice vibrations (phonons) and the electromagnetic field (photons).

- Use the concepts developed in the course to describe the phenomena of spontaneous and stimulated emission and discuss their importance for lasers.

- Give an overview of cavity QED and its applications.

- Read scientific literature on the above topics.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full Chalmers syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
