---
title: Learning from Data<br><br><br>
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 5</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Christian Forssén</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 3
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/tif285.pdf
folder: "msc_y1_courses"
---

## Aim

The course aims to give a deeper theoretical understanding, and in practice experience, of workflows and methods that are essential for performing scientific modeling, statistical inference, and machine learning. Much emphasis is put on probabilistic approaches within science and engineering, such as the ability to quantify the strength of inductive inference from prior knowledge and experimental data to scientific hypotheses and models.

The course is project-based, and the students will be exposed to fundamental research problems and development tasks, with the aim to reproduce state-of-the-art scientific results. The students will use the Python programming language, with relevant open-source libraries, and will learn to develop and structure both workflows and computer codes for scientific modeling and data analysis projects.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Plan and perform scientific data analysis with methods from Bayesian statistics.

- Simulate multivariate probability distributions with MCMC methods.

- Quantify and critically assess uncertainties of model parameters via statistical inference.

- Understand and numerically implement several probabilistic algorithms used in data analysis and machine learning.

- Address open questions in scientific data analysis and perform numerical studies using Python as a programming language.

- Write well-structured technical reports where results and conclusions from a scientific data analysis are communicated in a clear way.

- Maintain a scientific and ethical conduct in the process of modeling, analyzing data and writing computer programs.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full Chalmers syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
