---
title: "Plasma Physics with Applications"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: N/A</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Pär Strand</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "msc_y2_courses"
---

## Aim

The course aims at developing a physical understanding for the characteristic properties of plasmas, including how they can be created and where they appear. An important part of the course is to illustrate plasma physics concepts and phenomena by considering applications ranging from fusion energy generation and microwave techniques to space physics and astrophysics.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Understand the basic, distinguishing features of plasmas and explain how the plasma state is quantitatively defined in terms of those properties.

- Explain the differences between and similarities among the various plasma descriptions presented during the lectures, gain knowledge on what model to apply for a specific problem and roughly estimate their respective validity ranges.

- Derive the motion of a single particle in a static and uniform electromagnetic field.

- Understand and describe single particle motion in inhomogeneous, temporally varying fields.

- Understand the physics underlying Liouville's theorem and explain how it leads to the Vlasov and Boltzmann equations.

- Briefly summarize how a fluid model may be constructed from kinetic theory.

- Illustrate how to construct a one-fluid model, such as e.g. MHD, from a two-fluid description.

- Understand the general mathematical approach used to describe linear plasma waves and apply those methods to new systems (not covered during the lectures).

- Derive and interpret plasma wave dispersion relations for the plasma waves covered in the course.

- Summarize the physics content of various limits (e.g. high/low frequency limits) of dispersion relations.

- Understand the basic mechanism of particle diffusion and what effects it leads to.

- Pinpoint the difference between free diffusion, ambipolar diffusion and diffusion in magnetic fields, and explain how to introduce the relevant terms in the one- and two-fluid equations.

- Understand how the MHD set of equations are used to determine equilibria and assess stability.

- Analyze simple MHD equilibria and stability problems.

- Discuss fusion reactions semi-classically in terms of concepts such as cross section, Coulomb and nuclear potentials, energy balance etc.

- Understand and recite the reaction chains and the plasma confinement in our Sun.

- Discuss and contrast various paths towards controlled fusion energy on Earth.

- Describe some typical magnetic confinement devices in terms of geometry, magnetic field structure, stability and technology (e.g. heating and diagnostic systems).

- Discuss the various particle orbits in a tokamak and explain the need for a magnetic field twist.

- Understand the importance of the fusion triple product and derive the reaction power balance condition.

[Syllabus from Chalmers](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/your-studies/find-course-and-programme-syllabi/course-syllabus/RRY085/?acYear=2025%2F2026).
