---
title: "Advanced Simulation and Machine Learning"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 5</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Paul Erhart</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 1
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/tif345.pdf
folder: "msc_y2_courses"
---

## Aim

The aim of this course is to provide students with in-depth knowledge about statistical methods and machine learning algorithms, and how they can be used to analyze and simulate physical systems in a scientific manner. The course is based on a set of projects, which are accompanied by lectures, and hands-on computer exercises. During the course, the students will be exposed to advanced scientific research problems, with the aim of reproducing state-of-the-art scientific results. The students will use e.g. the Python programming language and relevant open-source libraries, and will learn to develop and structure computer codes for carrying out scientific and statistical data analyses.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Critically examine the description of systems in the physical sciences by different mathematical models.

- Rationalize the numerical representation of such models at multiple levels of sophistication.

- Employ statistical inference and machine learning (ML) methods to evaluate and compare models.

- Explain, using appropriate terminology, methods from ML and statistical inference.

- Analyze data and write code in scientific and ethical fashion.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full Chalmers syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
