---
title: "Mechanics 1"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Ulf Gran</i></p>
img:
category: 
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "bsc_y1_courses"
---

## Aim

- To provide a good understanding of the basic concepts of mechanics, that provides a basis for further physics studies.

- To provide training in the translation of a physics problem into a mathematical model, which is analysed by application of concepts introduced in the mathematic courses.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Introduction: The student should understand the central role of mechanics within the natural sciences.

- Force systems: The student should be able to apply linear algebra and trigonometry in order to efficiently and reliably analyse (rigid body equivalent) systems of forces and torques.

- Equilibrium: The student should be able to divide a system into subsystems, and model interactions between these through forces and torques. The student should also be able to apply this to analyse situations with statically determined equilibrium.

- Friction: The student should understand the special properties of the force of friction and be able to apply the Coulomb model for dry friction in cases of equilibrium, limiting cases of equilibrium, and uniform motion.

- Force distributions: The student should have acquired a general understanding of when an interaction needs to be modelled by a force distribution and be able to solve problems related to applications in hydrostatics and thin beams.

- Particle kinematics: The student should be able to make use of the most common coordinate systems in 2D and 3D when solving problems.

- Particle dynamics: The student should be able to reliably analyse systems of particles in motion, in particular systems with constraints.

**Grade: 5.**

[Syllabus from Chalmers](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/your-studies/find-course-and-programme-syllabi/course-syllabus/FFM516/?acYear=2020%2F2021).
