---
title: "Tools of Engineering Physics"
description: |
  <p>10.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Jonathan Weidow</i></p>
img:
category: 
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "bsc_y1_courses"
---

## Aim

The purpose of this introductory course is to equip the students with basic skills in handling some of the common tools employed by physicists and engineers. This comprises both concrete tools relevant for their continued education, e.g. handling the local computer systems and mathematical software, but also experimental methodology and basic principles of physical modeling and analysis. In addition to this, the course serves to orient the students in some of the contemporary research areas where physicist are working today. Communication is an integrated part of the curriculum for the course. The course aims at developing basic genre consciousness along with writing characterized by correctness and feeling for stylistic differences with regard to recipient. In the last part of the course the focus of the communication part shifts to oral presentation in the context of project presentations. The introduction of a sustainability perspective in the analysis of phenomena in physics aims at developing a high sense of sustainability in the future engineers. It is also to be an introduction to the course Environmental Physics. The course also aims to enable students to start developing entrepreneurial skills.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Use the most common UNIX- and LATEX-commands.

- Find commands and flags in UNIX and LATEX using available resources.

- Solve more complex tasks requiring a combination of several UNIX-commands.

- Use basic functionality in MATLAB as a tool for numerical computation and visualization in mathematics and physics.

- Write text, characterized by correctness in language and style, oriented towards a given recipient.

- Work with process oriented writing.

- Use a sustainability perspective in an analysis of physical physical phenomena.

- Plan and perform experimental investigations of physical phenomena and analyze the results.

- Convert labnotes to a proper report. - Perform basic dimensional analysis and physical modelling.

- Treat measurement uncertainties.

- Receive and provide constructive feedback on written and oral presentations.

- Perform basic CAD.

- Perform basic 3D printing.

- Plan, structure and give an oral presentation.

- Apply an entrepreneurial approach to the analysis and modeling of physical phenomena.

**Grade: G.**

[Syllabus from Chalmers](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/your-studies/find-course-and-programme-syllabi/course-syllabus/TIF275/?acYear=2020%2F2021).
