---
title: "Business Administration, Management Accounting"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Lars-Eric Bergevärn</i></p>
img:
category: Business Economics
importance: 2
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/fek104.pdf
folder: "y1_courses"
---

## Course content

The focus in management accounting is on achieving stated financial and non-financial goals. Its core aim is to steer the firm and management in a direction that will result in goal fulfillment. In order to steer the firm towards the goals, various accounting instruments are needed. The course focuses on formal management instruments, i.e. fundamental concepts, models and relationships that can be used in the financial control of a firm. The course covers a number of formal instruments of traditional character, including budgeting, product costing and financial performance measurement.

The purpose of the management instruments is to use them in a way that makes the firm management act effectively, efficiently and in line with the firm’s strategies, in order to achieve financial and non-financial goals. The formal instruments are useful when calculating prices, costs and results for goods and services, when ensuring sufficient liquidity and net income, when measuring the profitability of different organizational units, products and/or services, when managing staff behavior and when reporting the outcome of business operations. A new task for the formal instruments used in management accounting, and for the individuals who work with them, is to merge social and environmental aspects.

## Learning outcomes

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

- Describe and explain fundamental concepts in formal management accounting in general and in budgeting, product costing and financial performance measurement in particular.

- Have knowledge about and be able to apply fundamental concepts, models and relationships of relevance in formal management accounting, and be able to explain in which situations each formal accounting instrument is appropriate to use as well as the resulting effects.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full University of Gothenburg syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
