---
title: "Business Administration, Marketing"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Christina Waldensjö</i></p>
img:
category: Business Economics
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "y1_courses"
---

## Learning outcomes

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

- Recognize and identify problems that firms commonly face in their marketing
  activities.

- Explain fundamental concepts and be knowledgeable about how different
  components of marketing are interrelated as well as be familiar with different
  views of marketing.

- Describe fundamental theories, models and strategic tools in the field of
  marketing.

- Analyze and evaluate the importance of sustainable marketing for different
  businesses and products.

- Evaluate and critically relate to scientific methods in marketing.

## Course content

This course covers central concepts, models and theories in the field of marketing.
Marketing deals with issues related to how consumers, companies and
organizations "do business" with each other. Knowledge of customer needs as well as the
relation and interaction with the customer is critical to a firm’s profitability and long-
term survival. The number of actors continues to increase in both the consumer and the
producer markets, implying an increasingly competitive environment. Buyers can be
increasingly demanding and generally have access to a large number of sellers. At
present, there is nothing to suggest that this trend will change, i.e. that markets will start
becoming less competitive, in the foreseeable future. In order for markets and firms to
remain competitive, it is of utmost importance to be able to offer the customer a good
and preferably also unique product/service.

**Grade: E.**

[Syllabus from Gothenburg University](https://kursplaner.gu.se/pdf/kurs/en/FEK102.pdf).
