---
title: "Business Administration, Financial Accounting"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Kristina Jonäll</i></p>
img:
category: Business Economics
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "y1_courses"
---

## Learning outcomes

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

- Describe and explain fundamental accounting concepts and properly record
  business transactions and events.

- Prepare basic annual accounts and apply laws and regulations in specific
  accounting situations.

- Relate to the functions and context of financial accounting as well as describe and
  explain the laws and rules that apply for the recording of transactions, closing of
  accounts and preparation of annual reports.

- Apply the norms in specific situations and analyze their effect on the closing of
  accounts and preparation of annual reports.

## Course content

The course consists of two parts: one practical and one theoretical. In the practical part,
the students, in teams, record transactions using a chart of accounts and prepare basic
annual accounts (lab assignment parts 1 and 2). The theoretical part focuses on
fundamental knowledge of the functions and context of financial accounting. The
students shall understand differences between management accounting, financial
accounting and tax accounting and acquire knowledge about the content and structure
of annual reports (income statements, balance sheets, cash flow statements, accounting
notes and Swedish so-called administration reports) and an understanding of who the
users of financial accounting are (and of how they use it and why). The theoretical part
also covers fundamental knowledge regarding the rules that apply for the recording of
transactions, closing of accounts and preparation of annual reports. The student shall be
aware of various laws and supplementary standards such as the so-called K regulations,
especially for large non-listed Swedish companies, the Swedish Book-keeping Act, the
Swedish Annual Accounts Acts and the Swedish Companies Act.

[Syllabus from University of Gothenburg](https://kursplaner.gu.se/pdf/kurs/en/FEK103.pdf).
