---
title: "Principles of Microeconomic"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Anders Boman</i></p>
img:
category: Economics
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "y1_courses"
---

## Learning outcomes

After completion of the course, the student shall be able to:

- Describe the basic economic theory of consumer decisions and the factors
influencing demand. The student should also be able to explain how a firm should
utilize production resources to minimize the cost of production and how supply is
determined.

- Describe how short-run and long-run equilibrium can be determined under perfect
competition, as well as explain and critically analyze the meaning of economic
efficiency. In addition, the student should be able to explain the formation of
prices under different forms of imperfect competition, as well as critically compare
perfect competition with imperfect competition with regard to economic efficiency.

- Identify different types of market failures and suggest and critically compare
different measures that policymakers may implement in the form of taxes,
subsidies, quantitative regulations, etc.

- Apply Excel as a calculation tool within businesses and organizations. (Learning
outcome specific to students at the Bachelor’s Programme in Logistic
management, adopted from Fall 2016 onward).

## Course content

This course describes how the market mechanisms allocate resources to production of
various goods and services and which economic policy tools can be used to adjust the
outcome.

First, the factors that determine supply and demand in a market and how they interact
through the price mechanism are studied. The course continues to address the actions of
firms under various market-structure characteristics, as well as price formation in
resource markets, in particular the labour market. The concept of economic efficiency is
defined and analyzed under various market forms. Lastly, the course discusses
deficiencies that can occur in the market's ability to allocate resources as well as various
government interventions and their effects on the outcome.

**Grade: B.**

[Syllabus from Gothenburg University](https://kursplaner.gu.se/pdf/kurs/en/NEK102.pdf).
