---
title: "Principles of Macroeconomics"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Claes Ek and Christer Ljungwall</i></p>
img:
category: Economics
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "y1_courses"
---

## Learning outcomes

After completion of the course, the student shall be able to:

- Describe and explain fundamental concepts and relationships in macroeconomics
and how they are related to each other.

- Describe and explain fundamental facts about the Swedish economy, Swedish
economic policy and the role that central institutions play in macroeconomics.

- Critically describe fundamental macroeconomics models, and demonstrate in
words, equations and graphs how the models are used to analyze macroeconomic
problems.

## Course content

The course presents the basics of how an economy works at a societal level and describes
the main features of the Swedish economy and its development. The course addresses,
for example, the system of national accounts and its components, how unemployment
and inflation as well as investments and growth are defined and influence each other.
Students will also learn how monetary and fiscal policy can affect the economy.
Fundamental macroeconomic models are presented and students will gain an
understanding of how the models may be used to analyze various economic problems.
The course also shows how economic analysis differs across the short, medium and long
term.

**Grade: C.**

[Syllabus from Gothenburg University](https://kursplaner.gu.se/pdf/kurs/en/NEK101.pdf).
