---
title: "Statistics: Basic course 2 Regression Analysis"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Anders Boman</i></p>
img:
category: Statistics
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "y1_courses"
---

## Learning outcomes

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

- Understand the functioning and use of fundamental methods for analysis of
associations between two or more variables.

- Interpret and understand the parameters of basic regression models.

- Use relevant methods for analysis of association in practical situations, which
includes interpreting their results.

- Perform simple analysis of association using relevant software for data
management and analysis.

## Course content

Analyzing the associations between two or more variables is central to understanding
how the change in one variable affects other variables. Equally important is the
understanding of in which cases one change cannot be said to result in any change in
other variables, and understanding what is required in order to be able to say anything
about these associations.

In this course, the student will learn the basics of analysis of association in order to be
able to describe associations, understand the difference between correlation and
causality, as well as making forecasts/predictions. The practical work is central to this
course, as well as understanding what the statistical results really mean.

This course builds on basic statistical knowledge and the student is strongly
recommended to repeat terms and concepts from earlier courses, such as STK110.

**Grade: A.**

[Syllabus from Gothenburg University](https://kursplaner.gu.se/pdf/kurs/en/STK120.pdf).
