---
title: "Statistics: Basic Course 1 - Introduction"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Mattias Sundén</i></p>
img:
category: Statistics
importance: 1
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/stk110.pdf
folder: "y1_courses"
---

## Course content

In this course, the student will be introduced to basic statistics. The course covers a review of methods for compiling, presenting and calculating summary measures used to describe statistical data. This includes, among other things, measures of central tendency (mean, median, etc.) and measures of variability (standard deviation, variance, etc.).

To be able to interpret the statistical results, a basic understanding of probability is crucial. Therefore, the course also covers basic probability theory, as well as how probability for different events are affected by a variable's distribution. Finally, the basics in how information from sampling can be used to draw conclusions about populations are discussed. This is done by hypothesis testing, point estimation or interval estimation for a population.

When analyzing statistical data, the computer is an indispensable tool. The course therefore includes computer-based project work, which consists of a number of assignments, where the student gets both an exercise in and assessment of work with computer-based statistical analysis.

## Learning outcomes

On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:

- Calculate the probability of different events.

- Draw correct conclusions about populations based on random samples.

- Understand and handle both discrete and continuous distributions.

- Analyze large datasets using a computer programme.

- Critically review statistical material and report (in writing) relevant aspects of it.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full University of Gothenburg syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
