---
title: Multivariable Analysis<br><br>
description: |
  <p>6 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 4</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Peter Hegarty</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 7
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/mve035.pdf
folder: "bsc_y1_courses"
---

## Aim

The course provides basic knowledge of the fundamental theories within mathematical analysis.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

The goal is to provide the students with the necessary mathematical tools in multivariable calculus and 3-dimensional vector analysis for subsequent courses in the Engineering Physics and Technical Mathematics programs. Among the most important learning outcomes are the following:

- To understand the basic concepts of multivariable differential calculus, such as: partial derivative, differentiability, linearization, gradient, implicit and inverse function theorems.

- To be able to apply the chain rule to changes of variables in PDE.

- To be able to find and classify the stationary points of a multivariable function and apply this knowledge to the solution of optimization problems.

- To understand the definition of Riemann integral in arbitrary dimension.

- To be able to apply some basic techniques when computing multiple integrals, such as: inspection/symmetry, Fubini's theorem, change of variables, level surfaces.

- To be able to handle different parametrizations of curves and surfaces in 3-space, and understand the meaning of and be able to compute line and surface integrals.

- To understand Green's theorem in the plane, plus Gauss' and Stokes' theorems in 3-space and apply these to the computation of line and flux integrals.

- To acquire some basic knowledge of how the concepts of the course arise in physics, especially in mechanics and electromagnetism.

- To be able to differentiate under the integral sign.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full Chalmers syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
