---
title: "Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 4</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Henrik Grönbeck</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "bsc_y3_courses"
---

## Aim

The purpose of the course is to provide basic knowledge about thermodynamic relations and statistical distributions, so that the student after finished course will be able to apply these laws to various practical problems and also be able to assimilate new scientific and technical information in order to attack novel and more complicated technological problems.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Describe the concept of energy in thermodynamics and distinguish the concepts of energy, heat and work.

- Perform thermodynamic calculations for different processes and understand the significance of quasi-static processes.

- Explain the concept of entropy based on a microscopic description.

- Calculate entropy and other thermodynamic quantities based on a microscopic description of simple model systems.

- Explain the relationship between the microscopic description of statistical mechanics and the phenomenological thermodynamics.

- Describe and apply the first and second laws of thermodynamics for closed and open systems.

- Explain the concept of free energy and apply this in connection with thermodynamic equilibrium and available work.

- Explain the basics of phase equilibrium, both in one- and two-component systems.

- Explain the basic distributions in statistical mechanics and be able to use them in different applications.

- Explain black body radiation and set up relationships for radiation balance.

- Explain quantum statistics and be able to apply this to ideal quantum gases and master the concept of state density.

- With thermodynamic concepts analyze energy balances and energy utilization in relation to sustainable development and the environment.

[Syllabus from Chalmers](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/your-studies/find-course-and-programme-syllabi/course-syllabus/FTF141/?acYear=2022%2F2023).
