---
title: "Quantum Physics"
description: |
  <p>6 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 5</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Tom Blackburn</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 6
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/fuf040.pdf
folder: "bsc_y3_courses"
---

## Aim

The aims of this first course are that participants should become familiar with the fundamental principles and experimental necessity of quantum mechanics, as well as develop the basic knowledge that will be built upon in subsequent courses. Participants will acquire the mathematical and conceptual tools needed to describe physical systems quantum-mechanically, and then apply these tools to generate predictions of practically relevant quantum-mechanical phenomena. It also aims to bring out the connections between quantum-mechanical concepts and classical physics, chemistry, and technological applications. The emphasis is on problem solving.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Describe quantum-mechanical systems using quantum states, wavefunctions and probability amplitudes.

- Predict particle motion in one-dimensional and three-dimensional (spherically symmetric) potentials, including the "particle in a box", the harmonic oscillator, and the hydrogen atom.

- Explain quantum-mechanical phenomena in terms of wavefunction collapse, interference and the uncertainty principle.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full Chalmers syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
