---
title: "Subatomic Physics"
description: |
  <p>6 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 5</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Andreas Ekström</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "bsc_y3_courses"
---

## Aim

Subatomic physics covers the area of physics that describes the composition of the atomic nucleus as well as its properties and interaction with matter. The subject, earlier known as nuclear physics, has been enlarged to contain the interface between nuclear and particle physics and also nuclear astrophysics. World-wide intensive research activities are going on both theoretically and experimentally. Based on the knowledge of quantum physics acquired in earlier courses the aim of the course is to give an introduction to the subatomic part of modern physics.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

The goal is to develop specific knowledge about the constituents of and structure of the atomic nucleus and to provide understanding of subatomic processes. The student will further acquire an introductory knowledge of phenomenological models describing the nucleus. The basics of elementary particle physics will be introduced and also intermediate energy phenomena at the border between nuclear and particle physics. Nuclear synthesis and energy production in the sun are also included. Description of experimental techniques will make the student acquainted with scientific methodology.

Understanding radioactive decay processes and the passage of radiation through matter provides important insights about sustainability and the environment.

[Syllabus from Chalmers](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/your-studies/find-course-and-programme-syllabi/course-syllabus/FUF050/?acYear=2022%2F2023).
