---
title: "Mechanics 2"
description: "6 ECTS \n Examiner: Martin CederWall."
img:
category: 
importance: 1
layout: page
---

## Aim

- To provide a good understanding of the basic concepts of mechanics, that provides a basis for further physics studies.

- To provide training in the translation of a physics problem into a mathematical model, and to analyse this model.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Kinematics and dynamics of rigid bodies: The student should use their understanding of particle systems to be able to derive and apply the laws of rotational and translational motion.

- Motion in non-inertial systems: The student will gain an understanding of fictitious forces, in particular centrifugal and Coriolis forces in the rotating reference system.

- The theory of harmonic motion: The student should be able to apply their knowledge of mathematics to the  damped and undamped, free as well as  forced harmonic  motion.

- Fundamental principles: Symmetries, conservation laws. Galilean invariance and the relativity principle.

- Analytical Mechanics: The student should have been offered an initial acquaintance with analytical mechanics. The student will be able to study simple particle system using the Lagrange formalism.

- Develop communication - Being able to present the basic mechanical concept in writing.

- Overall: Knowledge of all the above areas shall be used in problem solving. The student should be able to identify the relevant information in a mechanics and then formulate the problem mathematically using tools from mechanics and mathematics.

**Grade: 5.**

[Syllabus from Chalmers](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/your-studies/find-course-and-programme-syllabi/course-syllabus/FFM521/?acYear=2020%2F2021).
