---
title: "Computer Programming"
description: |
  <p>6 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Aarne Ranta</i></p>
img:
category: 
importance: 1
layout: page
---

## Aim

Computer programming is a basic skill needed in both studies and professional life. This course gives the basic skills that the participants can both accomplish programming tasks typical of science and engineering tasks and understand the fundamental principles of computers and programming.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

### Knowledge and understanding

- Express mathematical formulas as programming language expressions and algorithms.

- Choose appropriate datatypes and datastructures for different kinds of data.

- Structure large programs into manageable and reusable units by the use of concepts such as modules, classes, and functions.

- Search and find relevant program libraries and use them in adequate ways.

- Explain the relations between hardware, operating system, and user programs.

- Use programming for basic data analysis involving large files.

### Competence and skills

- Write programs that manipulate numeric and textual data to perform standard programming tasks.

- Build interactive programs with both text-based and graphical user interfaces.

- Make programs that read, transform, and generate files in the file system.

- Use standard libraries and follow best programming practices.

- Test programs by methods such as unit, regression, and property-based testing.

- Use programming tools such as code editors and revision control systems.

### Judgement and approach

- Assess the difficulty and resources needed for typical programming tasks.
- Analyse code written by others and find errors and possibilities for improvement.

**Grade: 3.**

[Syllabus from Chalmers](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/your-studies/find-course-and-programme-syllabi/course-syllabus/TIN214/?acYear=2020%2F2021).
