---
title: "Modern Astrophysics"
description: |
  <p>7.5 ECTS<br>
  <i>Examiner: Susanne Aalto</i></p>
img:
category: 
importance: 1
layout: page
folder: "bsc_y3_courses"
---

## Aim

The aim of the course is to introduce the students to the most important concepts of astrophysics and to give an overview of the modern view of the Universe. In particular, the course will focus on how basic properties of cosmic objects are measured, how physics is used in models of cosmic objects, and how astrophysical models are tested with observations. The course will provide a basis for continued studies in astronomy and astrophysics, but will also show students who choose to specialize in other branches of science how physics is used to understand the complex systems that make up our universe.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Give an overview of the origin, structure and evolution of the Universe and its contents (planets, stars, galaxies).

- Explain how basic properties of cosmic objects are measured (e.g. distances, sizes, masses and temperatures).

- Explain methods to discover exoplanets.

- Perform calculations (based on observational data) of temperatures and ages of solar system bodies, masses and radii of exoplanets and binary stars, magnitudes and luminosities, cosmic distances, masses of galaxies, and the expansion of the Universe.

- Explain and use the radiative transfer equation in simple cases - explain the basic physics and equations of stellar structure.

- Review stellar evolution, and relate it to observations (including the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram).

- Analyze radioastronomical observations to study the structure and kinematics of the Milky Way.

- Use kinematics to explain the basic structure of galaxies (spirals, ellipticals).

- Review the present cosmological model and the evidence for it (including evidence for dark matter and dark energy).

- Derive the Friedmann equation using Newton's mechanics and results from relativity, and solve it in mathematically simple cases.

**Grade: 5.**

[Syllabus from Chalmers](https://www.chalmers.se/en/education/your-studies/find-course-and-programme-syllabi/course-syllabus/RRY125/?acYear=2022%2F2023).
