---
title: Automatic Control<br><br><br>
description: |
  <p>4.5 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 5</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Bengt Lennartson</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 1
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/ere091.pdf
folder: "bsc_y2_courses"
---

## Aim

The purpose of this course is to introduce the concept of a dynamic system, and to demonstrate its application to different areas of technology. Yet another key concept is feedback and in particular the assessment of the stability of such a system. The course will teach theory and techniques for the design of both PID-controllers and state feedback controllers. Feed-forward control will be addressed as well.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Understand and explain the purpose of linear control systems and basic control terminology.

- Describe and explain the most important properties of linear dynamical systems.

- Formulate models as dynamic systems, frequently encountered in a technical context. Formulate models as transfer/frequency functions, as state equations.

- Transform in both directions between linear state equations and transfer/frequency functions, especially for single-input single-output systems. Linearize nonlinear state equations.

- Analyze feedback systems, emphasizing stability assessment based on the Nyquist criterion. Formulating solutions to state equations, using state transition matrices.

- Define and explain the principle of P-, I-, PI-, PD- and PID-controllers in a control loop, as well as being able to carry out design for such controllers, in particular by use of Bode plot techniques.

- Analyze feedback systems, using sensitivity functions, particularly to estimate how large modelling errors a control system can handle without risking instability.

- Describe and explain the feed-forward, cascade control, and dead time compensation.

- Explain and apply the concept of controllability and observability for the design of state feedback controllers and observers using the pole placement method.

- Discretize analog systems, explain the function of a computer control system, and explain the sampling technique.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full Chalmers syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
