---
title: "Experimental Physics 1 - Measuring Technique"
description: |
  <p>9 ECTS<br>
  <strong>Grade: 4</strong><br>
  <i>Examiner: Lars Hellberg</i></p>
img:
category:
importance: 6
layout: page_w_pdf
pdf: course_syllabi/tif083.pdf
folder: "bsc_y2_courses"
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->

## Aim

### Part A, B and C

- To provide training in experimental work and experimental problem solving through laboratory work and projects.

### Part D

- Through visits to one or more large-scale research facilities, the students should obtain an overview of:
  - the research carried out,
  - the tools used and
  - how to get access to the research facilities.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

### Part A

- Show experimental skill.

- Perform good experimental physics, especially in mechanics.

- Formulate problems themselves -design and build experimental setup.

- Make accurate measurements with advanced equipment.

- Write technical reports.

### Part B

- Apply and solve problems regarding basic electrical measurement technology.

- Build and characterize simpler electrical circuits containing resistors, capacitors and inductors.

- Use common instruments for DC and AC measurements.

- Characterize the properties of diodes, transistors and operational amplifiers as well as build circuits with these components.

- Read and use component datasheet-documents and analyze measurement results.

### Part C

- Solve problems regarding advanced electrical measurement technology.

- Build and troubleshoot experiment settings.

- Read and use manuals for advanced electrical measuring instruments.

- Use advanced electrical measuring instruments to independently measure reality related metrological problems in experimental physics.

- Collect and analyze measurement data and draw conclusions from these.

- Automate measurements using measuring instruments that are connected to computers and the Labview programming environment.

- Keep laboratory log notes.

- Communicate ideas and results by writing preliminary studies and technical reports as well as oral and poster presentations.

### Part D

- Describe a current research area, the scientific issues addressed and the methods that the current facility can offer.

- Describe the underlying technology and the mode of operation of the plant, including the specific pros and cons of these systems.

- Provide an overview of the scientific and engineering skills required by a modern research facility.

- Describe the operating conditions of the plant, how the selection process for using its resources is done and how it is controlled.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<p style="text-align:left; font-size:16px; font-style: italic; font-weight: bold">The full Chalmers syllabus can be downloaded from the icon at the top of this page.</p>
