---
title: "Leadership in the 21st Century"
description: |
  <p>3 AU<br>
  <i>Examiner: Assoc Prof. Jing Zhu</i></p>
img:
category: "Nanyang"
importance: 1
layout: page
---

## Aim

"Leadership for real"

Leadership is a hot topic in corporations, government agencies, and non-profit organizations. But what do leaders really do in the world of work? What do YOU need to do, in order to become a really effective leader? This course takes an evidence-based approach, provides an in-depth presentation and discussion of leadership theory, frontier research on leadership, and how it applies to real-life situations. This course is for students who hope to become managers, leaders, or consultants in workplaces anywhere in the world or who want a deeper understanding of what leadership can mean for you personally. If you do not have this ambition, please do not do this course! This course is designed to get you really thinking about what leadership means for you, learn ways to think and act like a leader, and learn leadership skills that you can use in your day-to-day life.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Describe and explain key concepts, facts, principles and theories of leadership.

- Critically and creatively think about challenges leaders often face, and identify practical uses of leadership concepts and theories.

- Recognize ones' own and others' leadership competencies, and apply leadership theory to help one function and relate to others more effectively.

- Resolve problems and make decisions by applying knowledge in unfamiliar circumstances.

- Effectively listen, express ideas in oral and written English, negotiate, and facilitate the flow of information to improve performance.

- Enhance team dynamics and create a healthy team environment by combining talents and
  resources for collaboration and information sharing.

- Develop reflective thinking through identifying personal strengths and developmental needs as a first step in leading others.

- Develop the capacity to lead in organizational situations.

- Recognize the impact of global trends on an organization to value diversity, and to conduct business in an ethical manner.

**Grade: C+.**
