---
title: "Ethics and Moral Reasoning"
description: |
  <p>1 AU<br>
  <i>Examiner: Jacob Mok</i></p>
img:
category: "Nanyang"
importance: 1
layout: page
---

## Aim

NTU undergraduates have moral/ethical duties as participants in an institution of higher learning, as citizens of a diverse nation, and as human beings in co-existence with others. HY0001 is a required 1 AU online learning course designed to provide NTU undergraduates with an opportunity to analyze and appreciate basic moral/ethical values such benevolence, impartiality, and integrity. These basic values will be explored from the perspective of several leading ethical theories in contemporary moral philosophy. The ethical theories will serve as benchmarks to facilitate critical thinking on issues that raise difficult moral questions. Students will be challenged to articulate reasoned answers to these moral questions. Also, exercises in moral reasoning will be carried out through a comprehensive study of academic integrity and research ethics. The course will conclude with a discussion of the importance of ethics in thinking about efforts to sustain the natural environment.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Identify the morally relevant features of situations, decisions, and policies, and articulate what makes those features morally relevant.
- Assess whether a moral claim is well-supported by a moral argument.
- Discuss and explain the moral reasons behind rules of Academic Integrity and Research Ethics.

**Grade: Pass.**
