---
title: "Open Quantum Systems"
description: |
  <p>4 AU<br>
  <i>Examiner: Dr. Koh Teck Seng</i></p>
img:
category: "Nanyang"
importance: 1
layout: page
---

## Aim

This course aims to introduce basic formalism and interpretation of decoherence of open quantum systems, so that you have a more complete understanding of the philosophical, mathematical and experimental foundations of quantum mechanical phenomena. It applies the mathematical formalisms to describe contemporary experiments in quantum computing, and explores the role decoherence plays in interpretations of quantum mechanics.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Explain the concepts of entanglement, composite systems, and density matrices, and make use of their mathematical definitions.

- Derive and apply the interaction picture formalism to time-dependent quantum systems.

- Derive and apply the Born-Markov master equation to simple Markovian open systems.

- Derive and apply the Lindblad master equation to simple Markovian open systems.

- Apply the concepts of decoherence, relaxation and dephasing to simple quantum systems, and calculate their Markovian dynamics.

- Apply the formalism of open systems to canonical models of open systems, such as the collisional model, the spin-boson model and the spin-spin model.

- Apply the formalism of linear dynamical maps to describe the evolution of open quantum systems, with a focus on quantum computation and quantum error correction.

- Explain and reconcile the approaches from physical arguments and linear maps with the Kraus representation theorem.

- Describe standard interpretations of quantum mechanics, implications and paradoxes.

- Explain and justify how concepts and implications of decoherence may resolve some paradoxes, and identify their limitations.

**Grade: A.**
