---
title: "Rugby"
description: |
  <p>3 AU<br>
  <i>Examiner: Harrie Desianto Hussien</i></p>
img:
category: "Nanyang"
importance: 1
layout: page
---

## Aim

The aim of this course is to provide you with knowledge, understanding and playing competency in the various forms of rugby, using tag and touch rugby as forms to learn the fundamentals and skills involved. Game strategies will be learnt and applied in practice and match related sessions. Theory aspects will be learnt so as to fulfil the aspects of the how and why to the game of rugby. Session practices will include techniques and strategic thinking to understand the principles of play. These theory and practical sessions will further aid you in developing the thought process and the application of these mini aspects put together. The Sport Education and Games Concept Approaches (GCA) will be adopted, employing the use of modified games to demonstrate the advantages of adjustments to the major game for effective learning.

## Learning outcomes (after completion of the course the student should be able to)

- Discuss the principles of play and the playing charter.

- Demonstrate fundamental skills of tag and touch rugby in play.

- Briefly coach playing concepts and strategies of attack and defence in practice and game situations.

- Analyse and interpret effectiveness of players and/or teams during different phases of play using quantitative and/or qualitative techniques.

- Articulate World Rugby, Rugby Ready best practices.

- Apply the World Rugby Laws of the Game for match situations.

- Demonstrate coaching of tag and touch rugby games.

**Grade: B+.**
